Different databases have different architecture based on the workload they are trying to solve. 

Database management system takes the role of client/server architecture where the database system instances (nodes) is given the role of a server whereas application instances are given the role of the client.

- Clients send request to the database through the transport layer subsystem. 
- The request is in the form of a query which is expressed in some query language such as SQL. 
- The transport layer subsystem is also responsible for communication with other nodes in the database cluster

Here are the steps that are taken when a query is given from a application instance (client) to the database system:
1. The transport layer receives the request from the application instance as a query. This query is expressed in the form of a query language such as SQL. 
2. The request is then given to the Query Processor. The query processor has 2 main components which includes
	- **Query Planner**: Parsing, interpreting and validating the query and pass the query to the query optimizer
	- **Query Optimizer**: 
		- Removes redundant parts of the query, attempts to find the most effective way to execute the query based on internal statistics and data placement (which nodes holds the data necessary to execute the query and the cost associate with the data transfer between the nodes). 
		- The query is presented in the form of a **execution plan** or a **query plan**. Sequence of operations that have to be carried out for its result to be considered complete (execution plan).
		- A single query can have more than one execution plan, so the job of the optimizer is to select the based on out of it.
3. The execution plan is given to the execution engine which is responsible for the execution of the query
4. The storage engine has various components which includes:
	1. Transaction manager 
	2. Lock manager 
	3. Access methods 
	4. Buffer manager 
	5. Recovery manager 
