IPv4 addressing cannot address all the network layer devices that are being produced in rapid rate throughout the world. To address this issue, a new version of IPv4 were introduced called the IPv6. This could handle upto 2^128 address (which is a lot) and remove a lot of features that IPv4 includes which were hampering the performance of network core devices such as routers such as fragementation infromatoin, flags and much more. IPv6 introduced the concept of flow based data transfer which is similar to the type of service field of the IPv4. As mentioned IPv6 didn't allow fragmentation of datagram as they provided more overhead to the network devices. Instead if the datagram has a size greater than the link size then it sends a ICMP "packet too big" message to the sender to reduce the size of the datagram.

Transitioning from IPv4 to IPv6
Since a lot of devices are still running IPv4 addressing scheme there must be a way to make sure that without declaring a flag day where all the devices that were running IPv4 to be converted to IPv6 we can use the concept of Tunneling. 
The basic idea of tunneling is to encapsulate IPv6 datagram originated from IPv6 nodes into a IPv4 payload in the IPv4 nodes. the IPv6 node sends the IPv4 datagram along with the IPv6 payload into a tunnel or a IPv4 network. The IPv4 network use this datagram to tranvese the IPv 4 network. When an IPv6 node receives this Ipv4 datagram and checks the upper layer protocol value then it can extract the Ipv6 datagram from the payload and work with it.