# Garbage collection: 

# The  "this" pointer:
Objects have properties and methods. Properties can be primitive and non-primitive values. Methods on the other hand are functions that are defined inside a object. To declare a function inside an object we use the syntax:
```javascript 
let user = {
	name: "jibesh",
	// this is preferred way but there are other ways too
	sayHi() {
		return `Hi`;
	}
	// this is another way to define a method
	sayHi = function() {
		return `Hi`;
	}
}
```
Methods that we create are mainly created to access values inside the objects and produce some results. To access the values inside an object we use the  "this" pointer. The "this" pointer behind scene points to the address of the current object. To access values using the "this" pointer we use the dot operator(.):
```javascript
let user = {
	// name
	sayHi(name) {
		return `Hi! ${this.name}`
	}
}
```
We can access the values in method without using the "this" pointer 
but is makes it unreliable. In a case where we copy the values of `user` into another object `admin` the user.name is unknown to the admin object hence the value is undefined.

# Constructor, Operator "new"
The regular `{...}` helps us to create a single object. But often we need to create many similar objects like multiple users and so on. Constructor function are regular functions that help us to initialize a new object with particular constructor value using the "new" keyword. 
```javascript
function User(name) {
	this.name = name;
	this.isAdmin = false;
}

let user = new User("Jack");
```
When a function is executed with "new", here are the following things that happens: 
- A empty object is created and assigned to "this".
- The function body executes and the properties are set and the value of "this" is modified.
- The value of "this" is returned.
```javascript
function User(name) {
	// let this = {};

	this.name = name;
	this.isAdmin = false;

	// return this;
}
```
We can check if the function is called with or without the "new" using `new.target`
```js
function User() {
	console.log(new.target);
}

User(); // undefined

new User(); // function User
```
We can also call the function with "new" if it hadn't been done before 
```js
function User(name) {
	if(!new.target) {
		return new User(name);
	}
	this.name = name;
}

// both are the same
User("jibesh");
new User("jibesh"); 
```
Usually constructor do not have return statements but if the do then then:
- if `return` is called with an object, then the object is returned rather then `this`.
- if `return` is called with a primitive then it is ignored.


## NOTE: Objects convert keys to strings during compliation??