Types of programming paradigm 
- unstructured programming language -> where all the code are placed on a single file, all the function definition, variable declaration and all those are done in a single file
- procedural programming paradigm -> where different sequnces performing different tasks are placed into different procedure. we have to call the prodecure to make the executing of the prodecure happen. The control jumps back to where the prodecure was called from.
- structured programming paradim -> subset of prodecural programming paradigm where related procedure are kept as a single group so that they can be tested and developed independently. 
- OOP -> where datas and functions that are meant to access the same data are placed on the same unit called as a object. 

# Characteristics of OOP:
- Encapsulation
- virtual function
- polymorphism 
- inheritance
- objects and classes 
- abstraction
- operator overloading

"Everything in C++ are objects" this means that every data types in C++ are treated as object, which are instances of classes. Objects in C++ are basically instances of classes.

Classes in C++ are used to create objects that hae a certain meaning and does things that are bound within those meaning.

Abstraction means hiding the internal working of a program to third party people and just giving them the require features to work around the software so that the software does what is was originally made to do and that no changes can be made without any permission of the authorized person.

Encapsulation is the concept of hiding data from other objects that are not a part of the original object or do not have any inheritnace with the original object. 

Polymorphism is a concept that allows objects of different type to be used interchangeably without changing the context of the original class. There are mainly two types of polymorphism which are inheritance based polymorphism and interface based polymorphism (more on these topics rather) also function overriding(virtual function) vs function overloading


difference between structural programming paradigm and OOP
