- Character sets in C++ : Alphabet & letters (small and captial), positive and negative integers, special characters, whitespaces
- Tokens : The smallest individual unit in a program in called a token. They are subdivided into: 
	-  keywords, identifiers, constants, operators, special symbols 
		- Keywords are special words that are predefined by the programming langauge and cannot be used by the programmer to do other tasks other than what they are specified to do so. 
		- Identifiers are used to identify an object in C++. 
		- Constants are data type whose value are never to be changed during the lifetime of the program during compile-time and runtime. 
		- operators are used to perform mathematical and logical operation using the programming langauge 
			- relational operator (> , < , !=)
			- assignment operator (=, +=, -=)
			- mathematical operator (+, - )
			- logical operator (&&, ||)
			

# data type in c++:
- int, unsigned int, signed int, long, unsigned long, long long, short short, short, float, doubledouble, char, unsigned char.
- void, size_t, boolean values, std::string, std::string_view

## program defined data type (predefined data type):
Arrays, functions, pointers are data types present in C++.
## user defined data type:
structures, unions, classes

# Input output streams in C++ using cin and cout:
`cout` is used to place the given object into the output buffer of the computer. the `<< ` operator (insertion operator) places the object into the cout buffer which then in turn places the object into the output buffer which in this case would be the monitor. The output buffer is predefined by the computer.
`cin` is used to place the the given user input during runtime from the input buffer into the given object. The extraction operator `>>` alongside `cin` places the given value in the selected object. 

# Preprocessor derivates and macros
`#define` and `#include` are two preprocessor derviate that c++ has it also has `if then else` as well. 

# control statements: 
- selection / branching -> conditional, unconditional
	- conditional -> if else, switch
	- unconditional -> break, continue, goto
- iteration / looping -> for, while , do while

# functions: 
```
return_type function_name(parameters) {
	function_body
}
```

passing and calling inside a function inside C++ has various methods such as: 
- pass and return by value, 
- pass and return by address
- pass and return by pointer
inline functions are used when we are trying to write a small function that when expanded during executing is of a single line. This avoids overhead of the function.


# C++ Miscs:
- Namespace 
- scope resolution operator
- pointers
- arrays
- DMA

## Namespace 

Namespace is an virtual space that we can create inside c++ program. This allows division of program into another sub programs more easier. We can define all the objects, classses, functions, variables inside a single name using a namespace
```cpp
namespace new_namespace {
	class something;
	int new_function();
	static const int variable;
}
```
we access the contents of the namespace using the scope resolution operator `::`. There are various predefined namespaces in C++ using the standard library. Some are the `std` namespace that we can access either by using `using namespace std` or defining the methods inside the namespace in the needed region like this `std::array<int, int>`, `std::vector<int>`. In the above given code snippet we can use the syntax `new_namespace::new_function()` or `new_namespace::variable` to access the contents of the namespace
We can also use the scope resolution operator to access methods inside of a class 
```cpp
class something {
	public:
		int variable {10};
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {
	std::cout << something::variable << std::endl;
}
```

## Pointers in C++:
Pointers in c++ are similar to pointers in C. The difference here comes in the syntax that C++ than that of C. We need to add `*` before or in the identifier to identify that the givenn identifier is a pointer pointing to something.
```cpp
int my_address = 10;
int* ptr = &my_address;
```
here ptr is pointing to the address of `my_address` which means that dereferencing the value of ptr will give the value of my_address. Changing the value of my_address will not change the value of ptr since ptr is pointing to the address of my_address rather than the value, but dereferencing the pointer will now give the changed value

## Array and pointers
Arrays and pointers are not the same thing but they do show similar characteristics such as they both can read a block from continuous memory address. We declare an array using the syntax
```cpp
int array[] = {1, 2, 3};
int array_two[10] = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10};
#define size 10
int array_three[size] = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10};
```
We can use pointer to point at the first element of the array. for example
```cpp
int array[] = {1, 2, 3};
int* ptr = array;
```
here ptr points to the address of the first element of the array `array[0]` then we can use loops or just can keep on increasing the value of the address to get the value of the next block of memory.

## Dynamic memory allocation: 

Using pointers we can dynamically allocate memory in c++. Dynamically allocating memory means allocating new chunks of memory during the runtime of your program. This memory is stored in the heap such of your memory where they are not placed in sequential manner but are scattered around the heap region of the memory. We can dynamically allocate memory using c++ like this:
```cpp
int* ptr = new int;
int* ptr_two = new int[10];

if (!ptr && !ptr_two) 
	printf("Couldn't allocate memory!");
	exit(1);

delete ptr;
delete []ptr_two;
```

## Passing array into a function:

like normal variables, we can also pass array into a function like this:
```cpp
int function_that_takes_array(int* array, int size){

}

int function_that_takes_array_two(int (&array)[size]) {

}

int main() {
	int myarray[] = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10};
	function_that_takes_array(myarray, sizeof(myarray)/sizeof(int));
	function_that_takes_array_two(myarray)
	return 0;
}
```