## What I Learned Today
Deleting a huge number of rows in a single query is inefficient because
When we run a large DELETE in one go, the database has to hold locks on every row it touches for the entire duration of the operation. If it takes 30 seconds to run, those locks are held for 30 seconds. Every other query that needs those rows is stalled, waiting.
On busy systems (high query or update load), this has a ripple effect. Reads pile up, writes get blocked, and your connection pool starts getting exhausted.
Large DELETE queries also produces large WAL transactional logs that need to be stored and replicated to the replica. Replication server can lag behind

The fix is to DELETE ... WHERE ... LIMIT 1000, then sleep for a small interval, then repeat

There is also this problem
So you run a query, identify the records that need to be deleted. And delete the first 1000 records from those records. Sleep for some time. You wake up. And now the set of records that need to be deleted has changed. A read query needs to be run again to identify the records that need to be deleted. Have you factored in the additional cost of having to run a Read query for each 1000 records that you delete? If you were deleting all the records in one shot, you wouldn't have to run read queries so many time(Assuming a transaction isolation level of Serializable. Which is how a Batch delete should operate). Those read queries might not hold exclusive lock, but they definitely will hold shared locks.

### Tech -

### Non-Tech / Random -

## Reflections / Questions